Hello and welcome back to the advanced course on our programming.
Today we're talking about a new member of the family of functions we're talking about supply.
All right.
So first things first what do we do when we have a new function.
We ask the question.
Right so let's have a look here.
All right.
So let's zoom in and we are back at this same help page that we had for Elle apply apply a function
of a list or vector you can say l applies here and that is because supply is very very similar to apply
.
In fact supply and we can read through it.
Here you can see that supply is a user friendly version and wrapper of L apply by default or returning
a vector or Matrix.
So that is the essence of supply and that's why it has the word s is because it the letter S is because
it is a simpler version of L plates simplifies the output.
So basically supply is like calling l apply and then seeing if the output can be turned into a vector
or a matrix rather than keeping it as a list.
And as we will see just now the supply function is very very very convenient in terms of producing deliverables
and presentable results.
So let's get started.
Here is our weather list right.
And what are we going to do.
Well let's start by looking at some of the examples that we've already kind of work with.
And then seeing how they translate into a supply.
So we're going to say average high temperature in Fahrenheit for July.
How would we find it would say move play.
Right.
So this is something we've talked about before.
I would say weather and then we would say okay we want to extract something so that's going to be our
square brackets operator then we want the average high temperature Fahrenheit.
So that's the first row.
And July is our seventh month.
So we're going to say seven here.
These are optional parameters right.
So if on this line there we go we've got that average high temperatures for every city in July.
And you can spot check say Houston July 94 just in July 94.
OK but now what will happen if I do exactly the same thing but instead of elderlies say as supply what
do you think will happen.
Well do you notice that these values are kind of there in a list.
Right.
But they could totally be in a vector.
There's only four of them they could just be lined up in a victual as well as supply will do.
So I just replaced one letter.
We run this line.
And as you can see we've got a beautiful named vector.
So the supply function.
What it did is instead of returning a list like apply it put the values into a vector just to simplify
things.
So if you want the very strict approach then apply will always return a list like you expect.
Yes.
And as supply is so useful that can understand what to expect from a supply.
It's just that it depending on what process you run here what kind of information extraction you run
in marriage and a vector or a matrix.
All right so now let's have a look at another example.
We're going to look at average high Fahrenheit for a last quarter let's say not last quarter let's say
fourth quarter part last three months of the year.
So we'll say I'll apply.
Same thing whether then extract so square brackets first row and then we will say the months 10 11 and
12.
If I run that you can see here Chicago October November December showing them December New York Houston
San Francisco.
All right.
So what would apply do in this case because you know you can't really put them into a vector right.
What would supply it.
Well let's have a look.
As supply has put them into a beautiful matrix.
So how convenient is that instead of reading through all this information.
Where got the name of the city at the top.
Then you've got the name of the man you've got the values and then it repeats again.
Here you actually just have names of the cities and the months going down and you can quickly look up
the information you're after and you can also compare them side by side because Chicago and New York
Houston San Francisco or you can kopeck October November and December and see how the temperatures are
slowly dropping.
Very very convenient way of presenting information.
Let's have a look at another example.
All right so let's say something we've also worked with El apply whether this is going to be great.
Means.
Right.
So this is what we've talked about and this is remember that when we're getting closer to deliverable
one when there is already in one list we can really kind of compare it.
But at the same time we can get it to be even better.
So let's say as apply whether that means instead of applying for that boiler now it's actually all in
one matrix.
And just to make it really pretty which is going to run this matrix Yes we're going to run the whole
result the whole matrix.
We're going to round it to two decimal points.
So if far on that you can see here same thing but just run it.
We've got the cities and we've got the averages of every single row so basically we went from where
it was where I was whether there is or whether we went from this from all this information with five
rows and 12 columns with all of this what we just did is because we as roll means we used supply on
whether a ball in the road means of all of these rows or so the means of the rows for every single matrix
and then as supply put them into matrix for us like that instead of a list which would apply would do
.
And then we just rounded it and now we have this amazing information just what we were after.
So very easy to compare so we can compare the hours of sunshine and we can say r.k San Francisco got
them on sunshine days of precipitation.
Most are in New York which are the new average precipitation in inches.
Houston highest average low Fahrenheit temperature.
So which one is the lowest.
Here for the three point twenty five Chicago seems like the coldest city average high.
We've got Houston seventy nine point sixty seven the hottest city.
All right.
Beautiful.
So this is going to be our deliverable one deliverable one.
Awesome.
We're just going to say awesome like that because it is ready it is ready too.
It's presentable and somebody can actually go and work with it.
So another example as supply is quite a propell function.
So we're going to have another example.
All right.
So here we are going to look at this.
Remember we stopped here a little while to temporary fluctuations temperature will improve.
So let's see if we can improve.
So what do we do here.
Let's just go through this again.
Weather is our list.
We're applying apply so iterating through the components of a list and applying this function where
we taking the first row minus the second row and dividing it all by second row.
So we're normalizing by second row.
If I run that you can see that this is how much it temperature fluctuates from the minimum.
So the average minimum for that month across many many years to the max seventy 78 percent fluctuation
20 percent 25 29 and so on.
So once again this was very close to what we want in the deliverable because it's already in a list
.
It's already very conveniently packed.
So technically we could analyze it already.
But if we just change this to supply instead of L apply and run it where do we get much easier.
You will have to agree on this one.
It looks amazing.
So one thing is trying to compare this across to different cities.
The other thing is just this wonderful matrix where you've got all the months you've got the cities
and you've got all of the fluctuations in temperature so you can see it in San Francisco right away
.
Fluctuations aren't that high in Houston.
It goes all the way up to 47.
So in January in winter months the fluctuations are high.
Then they slowly drop off during the summer months and then they pick up again in New York.
What do we have a similar picture.
We've got high fluctuations in winter low fluctuations in summer months.
And then finally Chicago we've got the highest fluctuations over here.
Once again looks like temperature fluctuations are the highest in winter across the board except for
San Francisco.
And also you can see that Chicago has got some of the craziest temperature fluctuations especially around
that January period.
And once again this is in Fahrenheit.
All right.
So there we go.
This is going to be our deliverable too.
Awesome.
And to finish off with today's Tauriel what I want to show you was by the way just this is going be
like confirmation that air supply is a version of Al apply.
So apply what we're going to do which is actually going to copy Romains this one here.
So we're going to copy that.
And so far on that is the matrix right.
Gives us a matrix.
If I say simplify equals false and I run that you'll see it'll give me a list.
That is because you're telling it not to simplify the result.
And that is same as l apply.
Well technically if you check the core question mark for a supply you will notice that there is another
component here that you have to fix up.
It was talking about here.
So simplify false and use name false.
So then it'll be same as ellabella.
So basically you need to add another one which is use Daut names equals false for completeness of the
picture for that to be identical applied.
But basically that proves the point that supply is a version of L apply.
It just simplifies the result and if you tell it not to simplify the result then you will pretty much
get the same as l applied.
OK so that brings us to the end of just a Tauriel about this very powerful function and very convenient
function as supply which helps simplify results.
Hope you enjoyed this one.
And I look forward see you next time.
Until then happy coding.